So now let's practice this in code.
We're going to install a couple libraries.
Notice here we're also installing the shap library which is created by Scott Lundbergh.
You can actually search right here,
shap library on GitHub.
So it's this right here.
So don't worry about that too much,
we're actually going to implement everything by scratch in Python.
Then we're just going to use this library to verify that
what we did matches what this library is going to give us.
We'll go ahead and import the libraries that we installed and generate input data,
and then we'll fit it to a tree.
So we're doing what we did in
the previous exercise where we create data with three features.
Features zero and one form the and operator,
which means when both feature zero and feature one have the value one,
then the output, the label will also be one,
otherwise, the output label will be zero.
Feature two does not contribute to the prediction because it's always zero.
We're going to fit that data to a decision tree regressor,
and we will visualize it here.
Now we'll calculate shap values.
Will try to calculate the local feature importance of feature zero.
Remember we have features 0, 1, 2.
We have three features. For feature x_0,
determine what the model predicts with or without feature x_0.
Subsets S that exclude feature x_0 are the empty set,
the set with just feature one,
the set with just feature two,
and the set with features one and two.
We want to see what the model predicts with
feature x_0 compared to when the model does not have feature x_0.
So these are the marginal contributions that we want to calculate.
So there's 1, 2, 3, 4 cases.
I'm going to call them cases A, B, C,
and D. We'll also have sampled data.
So we'll have a single sample data point
for which we'll calculate the local feature importance.
So in this case, we're just going to choose a case
where all the features have a value of one.
So we'll just create that in code.
So we're going to create a numpy array for
these three features where each of the features has a value of one.
We'll see more of how we're using this sample values in a bit.
So first we have some helper functions to make things easier.
So to create the subset S,
we're going to use this function gets subset.
So it takes the entire feature set M. In this case,
we create a variable called x,
which will pass in here.
Also, it takes in a list of the features that we want.
For example, if we want a subset that contains only features zero and one for instance,
then we can specify that we only want column zero and one from this matrix.
If you're curious about how I came up with this,
you can actually just try it out in a separate cell,
and you can see that, for example,
x if we want to grab feature one for instance, it looks like this.
But because it's a 1D array we just want to reshape it so that it has one column,
and then this negative one means to choose the number of
rows such that the dimensions match.
So this is saying because there were 100 of these elements,
that negative one would have been the same as
saying you want a 100 rows and you want one column.
But negative one just lets numpy do the calculation for you.
But go ahead and just use this function if you want.
Then here's how you would use it.
You would pass in the X matrix,
and then you would say, for instance,
I want to choose features zero and feature two,
and that's what you'll get output from that function.